Hello, and my name is Matthew Fan. I come from a small town called Rolla, Missouri. Rolla is kind of in the middle of nowhere, with the only notable thing being the local university, Missouri Science and Technology. I later moved to Escondido, California which is a suburb of San Diego. I spent about six to seven years there, before moving back to Rolla. Although I come to China every year, I only visit Beijing and occasionally Shanghai and Hangzhou. I have also been to Xi’an, Xiameng, and the Jiangsu province. As such, I did not know what to expect in Sichuan. At the time I’m writing this, I am 15 years old and have just completed my freshman year. I plan on taking English, German, AP Java, C#, Network and Design, AP Calculus, Physics, and AP European History. 
As one could tell from my school schedule, I have a rather strong interest in computers. A few years back, my father gave me a C book, which I started to learn the language. Later, with the help of a professor at the local university, I have learned C++ to an intermediate level. I still have much to learn, and I hope that I can become extremely proficient some time. Later, I started to develop GUIs using the Qt library/IDE for C++. I also taught myself some basic HTML/CSS/JavaScript and Java. I classify myself as an introvert, so naturally, when I signed up for the program, I assumed that I would work behind the scenes, developing interactive programs for the children to use. As it turns out, I needed to develop websites, not GUIs. I have a strong affinity for HTML, probably because of my fondness for C-based syntax, so I rather disliked my assignment. We also didn’t need a computer team at the start of the program, so I went ahead and taught English. 
We had a few rough first days, and have encountered many obstacles. For example, it is a challenge to retain the students’ attentions. Also, because of my rather poor Chinese, it is difficult communicate to the students effectively. Despite all the challenges, I found out that I rather enjoy teaching English. Really, it is my motivation to become a better teacher that drives me into considering returning next year. I have made many a good friend and have learned a lot from fellow volunteers or even the very students we teach. This trip is as much as volunteer program as a journey of self-discovery. While we provide knowledge, we are also given new knowledge. The whole program became a humbling and moving experience. I know it sounds a bit cheesy, but you’ll just have to trust me when I say it’s worth it. 
