As part of the computer team, I took a different path from my teaching peers. Along with the rest of the computer team, I traveled to Bo Re Si temple to work on the two websites we needed to complete, as well as experience temple life.

While at the temple I participated in many activities including chopping weeds and witnessing a Buddhist ceremony. I was able to witness the everyday lives of the monks and pilgrims to the temple and gain a more in-depth understanding of the lifestyle of a follower of Buddhism. Personally, I was very impressed by the level of concentration and perseverance demonstrated by the practitioners of Buddhism. I even had the opportunity to participate in one of their ceremonies. The ceremony began with showing respect to the Buddha’s and offering incense. Following this we returned into the main shrine and began to recite the Diamond Sutra(金刚经). The monks read the entire Sutra which took around two hours, while I sat next to them and followed as best I could. The entire time they moved not a muscle while I was squirming and wiggling like a worm. My legs were numb, and yet no one else looked like they felt anything. Afterwards I could only feel awe at the intense dedication of the monks to their faith. The next day, we went out to the fields behind the monastery to cut grass. The monk told us that instead of removing the roots of the weeds we could simply cu the grass and let the dead grass fertilize the land. Then when the grass grew back out we could cut it again, endlessly fertilizing the land. It was tiring work but it felt satisfying, working for the food that we ate. 

Temple life in general is very different from my life back home. Everyone is vegetarian here, and, in accordance with Buddhist beliefs, no one is allowed to take another creature's life, including bugs. This, of course, leads to a lot of very daring mosquitoes. In addition, everyone must wash their own bowls after eating, and the only running water in the temple is used for washing. The temple, however, has also moved into the 21st century. The monks own cell phones, and work at computers. They even have an internet line running to their temple, which is how we could work on our website from the temple. It's a contrast I still can't quite wrap my head around.

At the end of the day, I feel that this was a good experience. While the temple lacks the creature comforts of home, there is a certain tranquility and peace to temple life, as well as a certain power in their ceremonies. I would not want to live here again, but I am glad I received the opportunity to experience this temple.

